*** slide Title (Dan):

Hello my name is Dan, and this is how a cycling race looks like :

Cavendish video -> www.youtube.com/watch?v=aNJ8ji9RRYI 

Please pay close attention to this guy here.

The winning cyclist, Mark Cavendish, made the correct decision to break away from the winning pack just before the finish line. This ultimately led him to victory.


*** slide Motivation (Dan):

This video perfectly reflects our motivation: in sports events the strategies used are of paramount importance. 

Using the correct strategy during the last few hundread meters can decide the winner. But this is not a sufficient condition! In order to fight for the lead, one must choose the optimal strategies throughout the entire race.


Thus, being able to correctly model races can lead to improved performance of cyclists.  We believe that both simulating races and having a solid game theory are of key importance.


*** slide Our solution (Dan):

The solution we proposed is split into two parts. We have formed two groups working on those two parts. The main challenge in taking this approach is merging our findings, when both teams have to cooperate in order to obtain the final result. 

Being mostly a research project, finding relevant results was very challenging, nonetheless rewarding and we are proud of our research. 

Alex and Robert are going to explain the Game Theory framework in more depth, but first Julian and César are going to introduce you to our Software Simulation.


*** slide The Simulation (Julian):





The Model is made up of three.

the physical model describes how the bicycle and the air around the cyclists acts,

the physiological model describes the biology of the cyclist, definining what they are physically able to do

and the Psychological model describes how the cyclists will act, whether they will stay in a packor breakaway and run ahead and whether they'll stay at the front of the pack for a fair share of time or not.




*** slide Physiological Model (César): 

For the physiological model, we took into account the two modes in which the human muscles can function :

When you exercise your muscle produce lactic acid.

If the exercise your doing is not very intense, the aerobic metabolism is activated. This means that your organism has enough oxygen to eliminate the acid as it is produced and that you can exercise for extended periods of time.
If the exercise is more intensive, the muscle enter in anaerobic mode and your organism can't get rid of the acid fast enough. This means you will get tired and your muscle will start to burn when the acid accumulates.


We represented this functions by two different values in the simulation :

Pmax which is the maximum power output a cyclist can produce with your anaerobic metabolism.
And Pcp which is the maxium aerobic limit. This is the maximum power a cyclist can produce without ever getting tired.

The speed of a cyclist will be computed depending on the situation based on these two values.


*** slide Psychological Model (César):

Now for the psychological model, this the part deals with how the cyclists behave, what their strategies are.
At any point, each cyclist can take several decisions, and we implemented the code such that it could easily be extended with new strategies.

The decisions one can make are :

Whether or not to breakaway from your current pack.
When a team mate breaks away, whether or not to follow him.
and finally, whether or not to act cooperativelly towards your pack. That means that you will do your share in taking the lead position, which is more demanding.

Unfortunatelly we only did not have time to implement many different strategies. The only one we implemented is probabilistic, each cyclist has a probability of doing each of the previously stated decisions. This allowed us to create a wide range of cyclists with different properties, making them more or less cooperative.


*** slide Demo (César):

Demo.

Now I am going to leave you with Robert, who is going to present you the game theory.

*** Slide GT Model - moments (Alex):


Firstly, I would like to mention that we are keeping the assumptions we have made in the simulation and in the mathematical model, in order to create the game theory.

As Robert said, we have managed to reduce the repeated games to one-off games. The one-off games will be analysed at each delta n km before the finish.


*** Slide GT Model - formulas 1 (Alex):

Now... the ugly or beautiful part. Depends on the perspective... :)

So, the pay-offs firstly depends on each of the two players ability to finish first given their current status.

This status, CS, is given by each player's pedalling power, energy remaining, km before the finish line and current speed.

From this we can obtain a probability of finishing first.

Next formula describes the "advantage" one player gets from being second. This is the drafting force. The main things to remember from it are that
it depends on the value dw, the distance between two cyclists, the density ro of the medium we are cycling in and the speed x of the player which is drafting. 
Why density of the medium, because we want to make the project flexible and add the possibility of reasoning about cycling at different altitudes.

The reason we use the density of the medium is because we want to make the project flexible and add the possibility of reasoning about cycling at different altitudes.


*** Slide GT Model - formulas 2 (Alex):

Let's look at possible strategies now. Due to time constraints, we will only talk about the case when both players cooperate. Other cases are ...

When both players cooperate, they swap positions at different moments such that the trailing player benefits from drafting.

So, what is the payoff a player gets from being second? This is (1-P), where P is his probability of being first, times a drafting value. The +1 is just because we want to keep the payoff values at a certain interval, i.e [1,2]. Thus, we can now add this formula in the pay-off matrix.

I hope we managed to give an intuitive idea about our GT model.

( I will now hand it to... (who is next) )

Dan kicks in

*** Slide Achievements (Dan)

Our goal was to develop tools to help find a winning strategy given a certain knowledge on the situation. 

During this prsesentation we have proposed:

1) One software simulation, based on previous research papers, created by Julian and Cesar. Our contribution is that it combines the performance model, seen in the pervious papers with the psychological model. 
2) On the other hand, Alex, Robert and I developed a game theory model that can be valuable for simulating future races. Also, the presented model aims to be as realistic as possible 


*** Future work (Dan) ***

Due to the team size, this projects was a challange for all of us but we enjoyed working at it. One further developments might be, for example, creating a tool that would facilitate interptering the results generated for the simulation. This would enable us to run the simulation distributed and collect and analyse all the results in a central location. 

On the game theory side, another development would be taking into account unexpected scenarious, just like this one here:

Video head butt : http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VXrLIJ3H_FA , min: 2:18

With these being said, our team would like to thank you for listening!


